## Lab Scenario

Analyze the data collected from the Rod Pump devices to uncover hidden trends, spotting anomalies, and conduct root-cause analysis.

You will need to store all data in long-term storage for the cold path analysis and filter a subset of the telemetry data for real-time analysis and visualization on the hot path.

### Visualize data using Power BI

Visualizing numerical data, especially volumes of it, is a challenge in itself. How can we alert a human operator of the sequence of anomalies that infer something is wrong?

The solution we use in this module is to use some built-in functionality of Power BI along with the ability of Azure Stream Analytics to send data in a real-time format that Power BI can ingest.

We use the dashboard feature of Power BI to create a number of tiles.

## In This Lab

In this lab, you will complete the following activities:

* Start Stream Analytics Job
* Check data in blob storage using Storage Explorer
* Visualize hot path data in PowerBI
* View Time Series Insights Explorer


### Exercise 1: Hot and Cold path data processing with Stream Analytics

Power BI can be your personal data analysis and visualization tool, and can also serve as the analytics and decision engine behind group projects, divisions, or entire corporations. Later on in this lab, you will build a dashboard and visualize data using Power BI. 

#### Task 1: Starting Stream Analytics Job

1. On the resource group tile, click iot-{deployment-id} and select the stream analytics job named **iotstreamjob-{deployment-id}**.

1. Then under Job Topology on the left side of the blade, select **Inputs**  and verify that there is one input job already defined which has set the input source as IoTHub.

1. Then select **Outputs** under Job Topology and select **powerbioutput** 

1. Then, in the blade that comes up, click on **Renew authorization** and when prompted for Azure Credentials, provide the  Azure Username and Password from the environment details tab.

1. From the **Overview** blade of your **Stream Analytics job** and select **Start**.

1. In the **Start job** blade, select **Now** (the job will start processing messages from the current point in time onward).

1. Select **Start**.

1. Allow your Stream Analytics Job a few minutes to start.

1. Once the Stream Analytics Job has successfully started, verify that you are showing a non-zero amount of **Input Events** on the **Monitoring** chart on the **Overview** blade. You may need to reconnect your devices on the **IoT Simulator** and let it run for a while to see the events.

### Exercise 2: Check data in blob storage using Storage Explorer

#### Task 1: Check data in blob storage (Storage Explorer)

1. On the resource group tile, click iot-{deployment-id} and select the storage account named **iotstorage{deployment-id}**.

1. On the left-side menu, click **Storage Explorer (preview)**.

    You can use Storage Explorer for additional reassurance that all of your data is getting to the storage account. 

    > **Note**:  The Storage Explorer is currently in preview mode, so its exact mode of operation may change.

1. In **Storage Explorer (preview)**, under **BLOB CONTAINERS**, click **temperaturecontainer**.

    To view the data, you will need to navigate down a hierarchy of folders. The first folder will be named for the IoT Hub, the next will be a partition, then year, month, day and finally hour. 

1. In the right-hand pane, under **Name**, double-click the folder **output**, and then use double-clicks to navigate down into the hierarchy until you open the most recent hour folder.

    Within the hour folder, you will see files named for the minute they were generated. This verifies that your data is reaching the storage location as intended.


### Exercise 3: Visualize hot data with Power BI

1. Sign in to your Power BI subscription (<https://app.powerbi.com>) to see if data is being collected.

2. Select **My Workspace** on the left-hand menu, then select the **Datasets tab**, and locate the **temp** dataset from the list.

   > **Note:** Sometimes it takes few minutes for the dataset to appear in the Power BI Dataset tab under **My Workspace**

3. Select the **Create Report** button under the **Actions** column.

4. On the **Visualizations** palette, select **Stacked column chart** to create a chart visualization.

5. In the **Fields** listing, drag the **id** field, and drop it into the **Axis** field.

6. Next, drag the **average** field and drop it into the **Values** field.

7. Now, set the **Value** to **Max of average**, by selecting the down arrow next to **average**, and select **Maximum**.

8. Repeat steps 5-8, this time adding a Stacked Column Chart for **Min of average**. (You may need to select on any area of white space on the report designer surface to deselect the Max of average by id chart visualization.)  

9. Next, add a **table visualization**.

10. Set the values to **id** and **Average of average**, by dragging and dropping both fields in the **Values** field, then selecting the dropdown next to **average**, and selecting **Average**.

11. Go to File, from the dropdown Select **Save** to save the report.

12. Enter the name `Average Temperatures`, and select **Save**.

13. Within the report, select one of the columns to see the data for just that device.

### Exercise 4: View Time Series Insights Explorer

#### Task 1: Getting started the Time Series Insights environment 

1. On the resource group tile, click iot-{deployment-id} and select the time series environment named **iot-{deployment-id}**.

1. On the **Time Series Insights environment** blade, at the top of the **Overview** pane, click **Go to Environment**.

    This will open the **Time Series Insights Explorer** in a new browser tab.

1. On the toolbar at the top of the page, if there is an option to enable the **Preview**, set **Preview** to **On**

1. Select Checkout a demo environment.Your environment will be loaded with 2 sample datasets Contoso Plant 1 and Contoso Plant 2.

#### Task 2: Add event using data explorer

1. The Time Series Insights data explorer will open in a new tab. By default, a chart displaying a count of all events is displayed. Notice how there is a timeline directly underneath the chart, and a more macro-level timeline below that, showing a span of several hours.
  
1. Remove the existing queries by clicking on the **delete** icon.

     >**Note** : To see the delete icon, move the cursor to left side of the selected query.
      
1. On the left pane, expand Contoso Plant 1 **->** W6 **->** Weather System **->** OutdoorTemperature.

1. Click on the listed data, then select **Reading** and Click on **Add**.

1. 1. The line chart will be displayed with the average temperature values as per the specific timespan.

#### Task 3: Visualize the data

1. Select the gear within the new measure you created, then check the box next to Use **Stepped Interpolation** and **Show Min/Max**.

1. The chart will update to reflect those changes. Notice how Show Min/Max creates a shadow behind the interpolated line to show the minimum and maximum temperature values. This is because the displayed line is the average temperature value.

1. Click on **More Actions** which is present at the top right corner of the environment.

1. From the dropdown, select **Explore raw events**.

1. You will see all the raw event data for the events displayed within the visible time range for the selected terms.

1. You may select which columns you want to view and export the data if desired by selecting **Download as CSV** which is at the left bottom of events dialog.

1. You can adjust the interval by clicking down the Interval selector above the graph area.

1. From the **Interval** dropdown, change the interval and then observe the graph.

